Hello, everybody, and welcome back in this lecture.
We're going to have a closer look at importing our own custom models specifically.
If you've got an FBI X now, it's relatively straightforward to go to the Unreal Asset Store and download
something and just add it to your project.
That is straightforward, but sometimes you will get a model or perhaps you've made your own model that
you want to import.
We're going to focus on FBI X here, but there are other file types that unreal supports as well.
Now we need something in our scene to move.
So we will be importing a door and a door frame and a texture to put on it as well.
We will be assigning a material and texture to our model itself.
So you get a feel how you can go ahead and customize your world as well.
And we'll talk about getting more textures and how we can apply them to the model.
So let's hop on over into one real and import our model.
Okay, everybody.
Welcome to Unreal.
Now we need something to import.
So over in the content browser, we have currently just our level in here.
Now I'm going to right click create a new folder and call this levels were unlikely to have any more
than just the one level at the moment.
But moving it's out of the west.
We are going to move it and moving it within the engine itself.
That's important.
Don't move things externally to the engine.
Otherwise you'll lose their reference.
And we're going to import a door.
So I'm going to import a new folder.
I'm going to call this models and I'm going to go into that and I'm going to not create another folder
here.
I'll create the hierarchy when we need it.
So I'm going to go ahead and imports.
But at the moment, we don't have anything to import in the resources.
If you don't have your own SBX, then go ahead and download the doorframe and dall zip file.
That's against this lecture.
Okay, welcome back.
Now that you've got that, if we go ahead and unzip this, I'll just extract it to my downloads folder
on some operating systems.
You will be able to just go ahead and drag both the UVA test, PMG and the door frame over into this
contents window.
That's not gonna work in this particular case.
I'm going to click the import button instead.
And I've already gone to my downloads folder before, so it's there and ready.
I'm going to shift click both of those and then open them up.
Now, when you open up an FBI exe, it'll give you a ton of options.
We are not going to delve into the details here at this point in time.
But the important thing for us currently is we wants to also generate collision, will talk about collision
in bit more detail later on when it comes to making sure we're not falling through the world.
But generating the auto collision will just make things a little bit easier.
And we'll have a look at the collision it's made and see if it's right for our model.
I'm just going to go ahead and click import all now with certain imports, you may find it throws up
a warning.
In that case, you can probably ignore it and it would be absolutely fine.
So what have we imported?
We've imported this.
Notice the color at the bottom.
That will come back to that in a moment.
And that is the asterisk means none of these are saved yet.
And we'll talk about how we can use them in a bit more detail.
So we've got to mesh objects of static mesh.
We have three materials we call a brass, a broken concrete and a wood.
And this EUV test texture.
So we've got three different things that we can play with here.
So, first of all, let's go ahead and get our door into our scene now, baby.
Now, it may be very tempting to just click and drag the individual components into our scene, like
so roughly line the map or turn on grid snapping and try and line them up that way.
Well, if these models have been made appropriately and together, we can get rid of them from the scene.
Shiflett both for those and bring them in together and they will just work.
And you will notice here, this is what we're aiming for as well, that the pivot point, if I just
select the door itself, is in the lower corner, which enables us to open and shut the door.
Fantastic.
That's what we're going to be aiming for in code shortly.
So how about these materials here?
Well, if you have a look, we have a brass M2, which is actually already on the door handle, which
is perfect.
And then we've got this broken concrete and wood.
Now, these currently don't have their textures appropriately mapped to them, and they aren't in this
pack.
Now, they aren't in this pack at the moment because I don't have the rights to share them with you.
You'll have to go to somewhere like texture's dot com to get texture's for your own scene.
However, in this particular case, I have got this EUV test.
So let's suppose you have imported a material like this broken concrete and it hasn't linked it correctly.
How can we go ahead and solve that?
Well, if we double click on the broken concrete material, you suddenly be walked away to another window.
Now, I'm going to go to the very top up here where it says broken concrete on the left hand side.
Grab that tab with the left mouse button, unjust docket next to our building escape level.
That's going to enable me to hop backwards and forwards between the two.
Notice the star means it's not saved, which is absolutely fine.
And it's unfortunately dumped two things on top of each other here in this main window.
This is a node based editor.
So that simply is a way of visually programming a material.
Now, we don't want parameter here.
This is just outputting a solid shade into our base color, which is what we can see over in the preview
window on the left hand side here.
So what else can we do here?
How do we get our texture back in there?
Well, let's say our texture that you ve texture that we've got there.
I'm going to highlight my parameter.
Let's just hit and delete it.
And there are a couple of ways of adding I can right click, which will bring up the search menu or
I can just click and drag across from the little circle that we want to be plugged in.
And then there are lots and lots of options for you.
Okay.
Same here with a quick clarification.
Basically, you've got lots of inputs that go in to this material.
But the most obvious one here is a base color, which is, as it sounds.
The main color is going to show up on your material.
There's lots of other stuff going on here.
That affects the roughness of the surface, how metallic it is, how shiny it is, the spec hilarity.
But we're not interested in those because we just want to give a woody color and a woody texture to
our material.
So we're going to try and input some of that texture into the base color using a node called texture
sample, which is just a way.
Getting the information, the pixels from your texture, sampling that and putting it into the base
color for the material.
So I'm going to click here and drag to the left.
What do we want here?
Well, if we have a look under the word texture, we get still got a ton of different things coming
up.
We want texture sample.
And it will open up this new node.
And the properties in the details of a node are over in the left hand side of the screen.
Further down, we can see here, it's throwing up an error.
We're missing material inputs.
This is where we can go to the texture and notice the red bar at the bottom.
If we go ahead and click on that, it doesn't give us any options for the moment.
However, if we go to the drop down to the right, we can go and click on our You test.
So that will apply that texture to our material and hence to our model.
If we go ahead and save that and go back to building escape port, we should find is now the broken
concrete texture.
Will be this checkerboard pattern.
Brilliant.
Now let's just have one final look down here, because there are many other mapping types we can use
space underneath.
We have this sampler type.
And we've got color, grayscale, alpha, normal masks, et cetera.
This needs to be appropriately set when you import a particular texture for use in other areas.
We won't dive deep into that.
And this lecture.
So the final thing that I wants to show you guys about is that if you have, let's say, a color texture,
you want to apply to a surface.
We can simply click and drag that texture over the top of our objects and it will create a new material
and apply it to the surface of our model.
That's really good.
We can double click on that and we can see that it's set up in exactly the same way.
We just manually set up a material.
And we really are just scratching the surface as to what these materials can do.
If you've glanced over a tool at the right hand side, you'll see there are literally hundreds of nodes
that can be dragged into this node.
Ed.
Now, the one thing that I will say at this point is when you're dealing with materials, it's best
to create an instance of that material rather than applying the base material to an object.
Same here with another clarification.
Basically, what Mike saying here is that it's better to add instances because we can change the properties
of an instance without having to recompile the whole shader, making this an instance.
Now just saves us having to swap it out later on.
So in order to do that, what we need to do, let's say with a broken concrete here, if we write click,
it's at the very top.
We've got an option to create a material instance.
When we do that, we get them concrete instance and you can name these appropriately.
So broken concrete and we might call this doorframe.
Can't include spaces.
So there we go.
Doorframe concrete's.
And then you'll need to remember to apply it so we can just click and drag and drop.
Then when we select the doorframe itself, we can have a look over on the details pane on the right
hand side and we can see we've got the doorframe concrete material applied.
The great thing about that is if you need to use this broken concrete material on different models and
perhaps want to scale it slightly differently or tint, it's a different colour, which is easy to do.
But you don't want that to apply to every other model that happens to have the single material on.
Then you can do it by having instances of that material that inherits all of the properties of that
base material.
Notice it's a dark green.
And if we double click on it, we don't get half the information overload that we had before.
This is a very basic interface in comparison.
And we'll see in a moment how we can add extra details over on the side here.
Extra parameters that we can use to change our material.
So what I'd like to do here finally is just going get another texture for our door rather than just
leaving it as this checker pattern.
And I'll show you some of the issues you may come across while doing that.
OK, so I've gone across to texture's dot com.
There are plenty of other sites out there as well for basic textures.
Indeed, you can go and take a photo of something if you wanted to apply that.
So what can we do here?
Well, we can go ahead and just search for something like wood.
Now, you could do a Google image search as well for wood texture.
And the great thing about that as, of course, is you're able to grab textures really quickly.
But please bear in mind that if you do not have the rights to use a texture and you then launch your
game commercially and forget about that texture in there, you could be in a whole world of trouble.
Okay.
So what type of door do we want?
There are so many bits of wood to go for.
And since we're going for a more gothic feel towards the end, I think this is pretty awesome here.
Now, these are substance materials which are absolutely phenomenal.
But let's take a step back and have a look here.
They've got all the maps that we need in order to put that map on the door itself.
So that is pretty cool.
Now notice they are taller than they are wider in this.
Great.
So I'm going to go and grab this flat map here and with one free credit, I'm going to grab the medium
one.
Now, the reason why I've also gone to Texas is dot com is so I can show you we've downloaded a TFC
file here.
Over an unreal if we go to try and import that, it won't see it.
So this is one of those file types that Unreal doesn't like.
So what can we do?
Well, the simple thing is to open up that file and then receiver is something unreeled can open a JPEG,
a Panji, etc..
Now, because a Pangea's lossless, that's what I'm going to pick.
So I've opened up my file browser.
I have my wooden texture here.
I'm going to double click.
That's.
That's the one I like how it's looking.
Let's go and open that up.
Now, depending on your operating system, you may be able to just save it in a preview window.
And you can do that on Mac.
If not, if you're on windows, you can just open it up in Microsoft Paint and then literally save as
a PMG.
I don't have the option just here.
So I'm going to open up in GIMP, which is an image editor.
And essentially what I'm going to do is go ahead and save it as a penguin.
That's it.
So if we go ahead here and go file save as it gives us a couple of options here, select file by type.
Oh, sorry.
In GIMP is file exports as.
Here we go.
Let's select file type and do a Panji.
Click export export.
And now when we go ahead to import, we can see it's right here.
Now, of course, I could go ahead and just drag that image straight on top of this door or I could
go and edit my wood material.
It's entirely up to you now because the wood material itself is a bit rubbish at the moment.
It doesn't have any of the stuff that we want on it.
I'm going to not do that.
In fact, I'm going to delete my material.
So I'm going to go to my material, press the delete K.
It's going to warn me that still reference to memory.
That means it's still attached to one of the objects in our scene.
But because I'm about to overwrite, I'm not too worried about that.
I'm going to click and drag and drop that on my door.
Now, depending on what happens here, it's actually come out as a reasonable scale.
That's pretty impressive.
But the thing that I don't like is that it's not rotated round the right way.
There are a couple of ways we could deal with that, and we'll do that in the next lecture.
OK, so we've added one texture to our scene and it's starting to look really nice, and now I'd like
you in your challenge to add another.
So your challenge is to add another material to our model.
And obviously you'd wanted to delete any of the ones you're not using to save cluttering up your scene.
So find a suitable texture for the door frame.
We found one for the door.
Yours might be different.
I'd love to see what you come up with, but find a simple texture for the door frame itself.
I'm gonna go for a stone texture.
Now, an optional here is does it have other map types?
Because it would be awesome to link in a normal map and in a roughness and a specular or whatever types
of maps it has.
It'd be brilliant to link those in as well.
And then, of course, add it to your door frame, possibly now and give it a go.
Okay, everybody, welcome back.
Let's go ahead, Dow, and add another texture to the doorframe.
OK.
So I'm going to go ahead and grab another texture from Texas dot com.
I'm going to look at rock to begin with.
I probably won't stone actually.
Stone, stone work something along those lines.
And I don't mind if it's not quite in keeping with everything else for the moment.
This is just a practice, of course.
Look at all these wonderful textures.
These are all substance ones, as I've mentioned before.
And you can scroll down and have a look at different photographed textures, plain old textures.
Let's go up and have a look.
I quite like a bit of a rough, rough look.
So something along those lines or not not smooth enough like that.
So there's many choices here.
I'm going to roll the dice here and pick this regular block work.
Something along those lines.
Perfect.
Yeah.
That looks like the type of block work that I want.
So I'm gonna go just go ahead here and grab the albino map or the base map and I'm going to download
that and looks like I've already grabbed that before in the past, which is great.
It's been downloaded as a tiff's.
I'm gonna have to open that and convert it.
So go ahead, open that up and I'm going to go ahead here and file export as PMG and exports.
Okay, so let's go ahead and import is can see it straight away, hopefully.
Here we go.
Stone wall.
That's going to bring that in because the door frame hasn't been set up.
I'm going to drag it straight on top.
So I'm going to call this this one here.
We've gone into the texture that I want to go all the way in.
Probably not.
I'm going to use F2 on my cable to just rename it Stone.
And it's applied.
Brilliant.
So that could be us done right now.
There is this brass one here.
I'm going to leave that as a color for the moment.
You know what?
I'm actually going to do that as well at the moment.
But the first thing I want to do is make sure we're applying material instances to the model itself.
So when I create a material instance and call this door material.
And make sure that's on the door.
Then I'm going to grab this material here, create a material instance and call this doorframe.
And I'm going to get rid of my temporary one that I created before and make sure that the door frame
material instance is on the doorframe.
I'm going to call the base material or here.
Metal.
Wood.
And this one here, just a stone stone mat.
Excellent.
So metal word door material.
That's absolutely fine.
Stone material stone.
So we've got an issue here potentially that this is all to do with one object.
It could get very messy very quickly.
Do we put all of our materials in one folder?
Do we put all of our models with their associated materials?
This of hierarchy, we can pick and choose as we go and leave it flat for the moment and then afterwards,
if we need to branch out into different material structures or different hierarchies, forum materials
for our textures, we can do so when we need to.
Now, you'll notice here that we've still got some asterisks across other things here.
I'm going to get rid of my UV tests for the moment.
It'll say that it's still being used.
Still being used because in the movie test material.
So we can get rid of that at the same time.
Some here, again, just to clarify that we're deleting the movie test material because we only brought
it in to show you how an FBI could contain a texture.
But because we're getting our textures elsewhere, we don't need that one.
I think that's everything sorted that I can highlight everything by holding down shift and selecting
the more I know.
Right.
Click and save.
That will save all of them.
Now, you will notice here that the door and the door frame don't look like this at the moment.
They work very much the same as materials, too.
So we can go ahead here and bring in a brand new door into the scene.
And it's not got what we can see on here on it, which is a bit of a shame.
So let's get rid of those and double click and go into the door itself.
And then here we go.
World grid material we don't want, but let's use the dropdown and use the door material.
Then we can save it than any other instance we want to create in our world.
It will come in appropriately like that.
Now, we haven't done the frame yet, so let's go ahead and do that.
We can double click.
We can go to our dropdown.
And because we've called it something appropriately, stone material, doorframe material, we want
the material instance.
I'm not quite sure on how that fits around our model, but I will say at this point in time, we can
adjust that later on.
That's good enough for now.
Save that.
Then when we drag new doors into our scene, they will be like that, which is awesome.
I'm going to get rid of that extra door for now.
Okay.
So I'm going to save my level.
There was the door on it.
I'm pretty impressed with that.
How did you guys get on?
Please share your door and how you managed to make it look over in the discussions and I'll see you
all in the next lecture.